i will take a break and review what I have done.

The first thing I needed to do was create a project

django-admin startproject myproject

next i check if my django project is running by going to the directory that holds manage.py

this manage.py file was created when executing the django-admin startproject command

this command also created a folder directory called myproject

and within that myproject folder i have a python manage.py file

cd into myproject

and run

python manage.py runserver and go to port 8000

when you see the launching rocketship

django is successfully installed. congratulations

next we need a app

go back to the folder holding manage.py so we can create a new folder directory called myapp, so this directory isn't inside the myproject directory, but alongside with it. 

anyways go to the same directory as python manage.py again, and type this command

python manage.py startapp grid

I like to start with an app named grid, because that is the whole purpose of my project

to create a grid website

now that command executes 

a new file directory gets created, which in this case is called grid,

within in it, it has views, and urls

so does your myproject file directory

first we need a view so we can view something on the browser

from django.http import HttpResponse

create a function called

def index(request):
    return HttpResponse("Whatever you want to say on your home page")

 now you move on to the urls.py file, which isn't created yet, so you have to create it. This will help you point to the main site's url settings, which I will show you here now..

 on this new file you created under the grid app, urls.py

 you want to import path from django.urls and import views from the . (relative directory - same directory)

 now you got the views function, you remember you created a index function within the views function

 so, now you want to type a urlpattern, which django understands, and which you unfortunately just have to memorize for now, which is a list that includes the path the view you just created.

 this takes two arguments,

 path takes in the name of the path, and where the path is pointed at so the urlpattern is path("", views.index),

 simple enough. that's it. 
 so django doesn't know how to open up this url so you need to point this url pattern to the main django's url patterns of your main website

 so going to myproject's file called url.py

 include the following code "include" under the import function from django.urls

 under the urlpatterns list, you want to point it to the urlspatters in your app's directory

 the urlpattern in total is path("", include('grid.urls'))

 as an argument, so it must be in strings, which django wants for now, which you have to memorize as well. and now you're done. 

 Now I will take a break, and find out how to render html files into my views, and i think i need to write out templates, which I will want to watch dennis ivy's for now, because I haven't reached that far in the django tutorial, but I know it is close. 